---
layout: post
title: ITBlog.no moved from Wordpress to Jekyll
published: false
author: Knut Magne Huglen
comments: true
date: 2016-09-16
tags:
  - TestTAG
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
In this post I will go into the reason I had for moving my personal blog from Wordpress to Jekyll. The differents between the two solutions and my considerations.

Wordpress is a Content Management System (CMS) but Jekyll is a static site generator. Thats to completly different things.<!--more-->

Wordpress uses mySQL for its beckend and PHP for prosessing the dynamic HTML generation. It has a nice user interface for authoring and administrating your site.

Jekyll is a ruby application that generates a static site. It uses a set of logic that takes the layout and content and generate static HTML pages that can be hosted on any web server. Requireing no backend or server side processing.

**Pros and Cons**

* Wordpress is online solution, you only need a browser to write and manage content.
* Wordpress removes the underlying logic, layout and design from the user, giving you a nice authoring experiense.
* Wordpress has a ton of free themes and plugins to extend the site with functuality.

* Jekyll requires you to write posts in a Markdown format.
* Jekyll has no backend, the site is easier to scale.
* Jekyll will typicly be hosted from a git repository, removing the need for special backup solutions.
* Jekyll has no server site prosessing, making it more secure as there is nothing to attack.
* Jekyll produce the finished content before a user requst it, making it faster.
* Jekyll can be hosted on GitHub Pages for free.
* Jekyll can scale better than a Wordpress site as it does not need a shared sql backend.

Other benefits I gained was a complete review of all my post, fixing dead links and moved all script and other code to GitHub. I used GitHub Gist as it is really convinient and fast and easy to create small codes that can be embedded in the blog posts. This was also interresting seeing how I have changed my pratices, languages and IT knowladge over the years :-)

